*: add doc for `tikv_client_read_timeout` system variable (#14721)
pingcap/docs: system-variables.md

- Default value: `tikv,tiflash,tidb`
- This variable is used to set the storage engine list that TiDB can use when reading data.

### `tidb_kv_read_timeout` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `0`
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Unit: Millisecond

> - You can use `tidb_kv_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. When the TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your business is sensitive to the latency of the query SQL, you can set `tidb_kv_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout time of the TiKV RPC read request. In this case, when a TiKV has I/O latency jitter, the TiDB side can time out quickly and re-send the TiKV RPC request to the next TiKV where the TiKV Region Peer is located. If all TiKV Region Peers requests time out, they will retry with the default timeout.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can use `tidb_kv_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. When the TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your business is sensitive to the latency of the query SQL, you can set `tidb_kv_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout time of the TiKV RPC read request. In this case, when a TiKV has I/O latency jitter, the TiDB side can time out quickly and re-send the TiKV RPC request to the next TiKV where the TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, they will retry with the default timeout.
```

> - You can also use the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also use the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the hint and the system variable are set, the hint takes higher priority.
```

> - You can also use the hint [`tidb_kv_read_timeout`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the hint and the system variable are set, the hint takes higher priority.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also use the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the hint and the system variable are set, the hint takes higher priority.
```

</CustomContent>

> ### `tikv_client_read_timeout` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

Author: ```suggestion
### tikv_client_read_timeout <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>
```

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL

> - Persists to cluster: Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Applies to hint [SET_VAR](/optimizer-hints.md#set_varvar_namevar_value): No
```

- Type: Integer
- Default value: `0`
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Unit: Millisecond

> - You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. When the TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your business is sensitive to the latency of the query SQL, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout time of the TiKV RPC read request. In this case, when a TiKV has I/O latency jitter, the TiDB side can time out quickly and re-send the TiKV RPC request to the next TiKV where the TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, they will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds).

Author: ```suggestion
- You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. When the TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your business is sensitive to the latency of the query SQL, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout time of the TiKV RPC read request. In this case, when a TiKV has I/O latency jitter, the TiDB side can time out quickly and re-send the TiKV RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, they will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds).
```

> - You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. When the TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your business is sensitive to the latency of the query SQL, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout time of the TiKV RPC read request. In this case, when a TiKV has I/O latency jitter, the TiDB side can time out quickly and re-send the TiKV RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, they will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can use this variable to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. When a TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your application is sensitive to the latency of the SQL queries, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout of the TiKV RPC read requests. In this case, when a TiKV node has I/O latency jitter, TiDB can time out quickly and re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, TiDB will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds).
```

> - You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the optimizer hint and the system variable are set, the hint takes higher priority.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the optimizer hint and the system variable are set, the optimizer hint takes higher priority.
```

> - You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query statement. If both the optimizer hint and the system variable are set, the optimizer hint takes higher priority.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` in a query statement to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request. If both the optimizer hint and the system variable are set, the optimizer hint takes higher priority.
```

> - You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` in a query statement to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request. If both the optimizer hint and the system variable are set, the optimizer hint takes higher priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` in a query to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request. If both the optimizer hint and this system variable are set, the optimizer hint takes higher priority.
```

> - The default value `0` indicates that the default timeout time (usually 40 seconds) is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The default value `0` indicates that the default timeout (usually 40 seconds) is used.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can try to set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the next TiKV Region Peer where the TiKV is located. Because the probability of two TiKVs having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can try to set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the next TiKV Region Peer where the TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.
```

> > - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - Normally, a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV node is in unstable network or gets I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for a specific query by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if the response of a TiKV node is slow, TiDB can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes getting I/O jitter simultaneously is low, the query can be completed usually within a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.
```

> > - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the next TiKV Region Peer where the TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.
```

> > - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can try to set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the next TiKV Region Peer where the TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Normally a regular query takes a few milliseconds, but occasionally when a TiKV has unstable network or I/O jitter, the query can take more than 1 second or even 10 seconds. In this case, you can set the TiKV RPC read request timeout to 100 milliseconds for the query statement by using the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=100) */`. In this way, even if a TiKV query is slow, it can quickly time out and then re-send the RPC request to the next TiKV Region Peer where the TiKV Region Peer is located. Because the probability of two TiKV nodes having I/O jitter at the same time is low, the query statement usually takes from a few milliseconds to 110 milliseconds.
```

> > - Do not set too small values for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster workload is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Do not set too small values (for example, 1 millisecond) for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster workload is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.
```

> > - It is not recommended to set the value of `tikv_client_read_timeout` too small. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster wordload pressure is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Do not set too small values for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster wordload pressure is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.
```

> > - Do not set too small values for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster wordload pressure is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Do not set too small values for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster workload is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.
```

> > - Do not set too small values (for example, 1 millisecond) for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise the requests might time out when the TiDB cluster workload is high, and the retry will further increase the pressure on the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - Do not set too small values (for example, 1 millisecond) for `tikv_client_read_timeout`. Otherwise, the requests might time out easily when the workload of a TiDB cluster is high, and subsequent retries will further increase the load on the TiDB cluster.
```

> > - It is recommended to use optimizer hints to set different timeout values for different types of query statements.

Author: ```suggestion
> - If you need to set different timeout values for different types of queries, it is recommended to use optimizer hints.
```

> > - It is recommended to use optimizer hint to set different timeout values for different types of query statements.

Author: ```suggestion
> - It is recommended to use optimizer hints to set different timeout values for different types of query statements.
```
